Axion Ray’s mission is to improve the quality and safety of engineered
products - airplanes, electric vehicles, and medical devices, by creating the
world’s best proactive management platform, powered by the latest
advances in artificial intelligence. We're revolutionizing the way next-gen
vehicles are made and are partnering with forward-looking engineering
leaders to create and deploy AI models that will accelerate our speed to an
electric and supersonic future. Axion leverages bleeding-edge tech & AI
stack - including Generative AI and NLP/LLMs - to solve real-world
problems.
Our team includes experts in Enterprise AI from Palantir, McKinsey &
QuantumBlack, and other top tech companies.
Since our founding at the onset of 2021, we’ve deployed across some of
the largest Automotive and Aerospace companies in the world. If you want
the chance to help build the future of engineering, join us!
What you will do
● Understand manufacturing data from clients, and devise strategies to
solve pain points and add business value.
● Work on data exploration, analysis, and automation of data cleaning
tasks.
● Work with the data science and product team to generate required
insights on the client’s data.
Who you are
● Bachelor's degree in
Mechanical/Automotive/Production/Manufacturing engineering.
● Has at least one year of experience in a manufacturing company.
● Can understand, interpret and define the relationship among entities
in Manufacturing data, and technical statements.
● Can work on engagements from understanding the business
objective through data exploration, identification, and validation.

● Can collaborate with stakeholders including machine learning
engineers, data scientists, data engineers, and product managers
● Experience in working on Excel sheets or other interfaces for
processing large amounts of data that is available in documents.
● Experience in Python(Pandas)/R
Axion Ray is an Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action employer committed
to diversity in the workplace. All qualified applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation, age, national origin, disability, protected veteran status,
gender identity, or any other factor protected by applicable federal, state, or
local laws.